#CS340


How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I adhere to the best coding practices to ensure my programs are maintainable, readable, and adaptable. I write clear and concise code, include helpful comments, and use proper naming conventions. This approach makes it easier for other developers to maintain, read, and modify the code. These practices proved invaluable when extending the CRUD Python module from Project One into Project Two. They allowed me to connect dashboard widgets to a MongoDB database. Project One provided me with a general understanding of how Project Two would function, which simplified the process. The project is structured with separate functions that manage different CRUD operations, enhancing adaptability and integration with other applications, such as the dashboard widgets. Additionally, this modularity makes the code reusable and adaptable, meaning that if I want to build a new app for animals using the same database, the transition should be straightforward.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I approach problems by understanding the project requirements and the users' needs. For the Grazioso Salvare project, I defined the customer's needs with a flow chart that details the function needed for the dashboard to work correctly. Constantly testing my code has been the best way to detect problems early in the development cycle. This can be time-consuming, but I would rather find out I have an issue in the early stages than later. All the assignments during this course flowed together correctly to show how a CRUD database can be implemented into a project. When creating a future database, I will stick to a module design that will make the code easier to read and maintain. 

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists develop algorithms, software, databases, and other essential components for projects, which greatly benefit businesses like Grazioso Salvare. Their expertise matters, as companies depend on these professionals to create solutions that meet both organizational and user needs. My experience with databases could benefit Grazioso Salvare and similar businesses by improving productivity and data accuracy. By implementing a database and effective data visualizations, businesses can streamline processes and enhance the reliability of their data.
